 <head> <title>(PVW) 1 John 3:1-3: a child of God</title> <meta content="IE=9" http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible"></meta> <link href="css/page_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link> </head><body><div class="page_style"> 1 John 3:1-3: a child of God
----------------------------

<div class="p">How great is the love the Father has lavished on us, that we should be called children of God! And that is what we are! The reason the world does not know us is that it did not know him. <sup>2 </sup>Dear friends, now we are children of God, and what we will be has not yet been made known. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. <sup>3 </sup>Everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself, just as he is pure.

1 John 3:1-3, NIV</div>The word used for God's love in the New Testament (<u>agape</u>) is often referred to as unconditional love. Apart from God's revelation, it is more like the love that the first century society would expect a servant to show one's master. In human relationships probably the best example of an authority figure showing this kind of love is the love of parents for their children.

<div class="p">We might picture ourselves showing an impartial<div class="footnote">(Deuteronomy 10:17-19; Acts 10:34-35; Romans 2:11)</div> love helping people who are unlovely. We might see giving food and clothing to someone who is dirty, smelly, and desperately poor. But this does not picture the full extent of God's love. Besides being an unconditional love it is an inconvenient sacrificial love. It is as if someone sees a dirty and unruly child living on the street scavenging for food and tells the child, "Come with me, you're going to be my child." It is the kind of love that takes the responsibility for the child, for such things as food and clothing<div class="footnote">(Matthew 6:19-34)</div>, discipline<div class="footnote">(Hebrews 12:1-13)</div>, encouragement<div class="footnote">(Philippians 2:1-4)</div>, education<div class="footnote">(Luke 12:11-12; John 14:26; 2 Timothy 3:16; 2 Peter 1:19-21)</div>, and security<div class="footnote">(Psalm 23:1-6; Romans 8:28-39; 2 Timothy 1:12)</div>.</div><div class="p">Jesus said the kingdom of God is made up of people who are like little children<div class="footnote">(Matthew 18:1-4; 19:14; Mark 10:13-15; Luke 18:15-17)</div>. Paul described the Holy Spirit we have received<div class="footnote">(Romans 8:9)</div> as crying out within us, *Abba*, Father."<div class="footnote">(Romans 8:15-16; Galatians 4:6)</div> *Abba* is the Aramaic term for "the father" meaning "my father" or "our father". This was the term that the Jews would use in Israel during the first century. Because of the simplicity of its syllables, *Abba* is also the term a baby would use for father. Crying out is what small children do. Thus, Paul's picture is that, through the Holy Spirit within us, we cry out to God as small children cry for their fathers.</div><div class="p">God adopting us as His children through the sacrifice of Jesus Christ shows us the graciousness of God's love in a way that we as Christians often forget. Rather than resting in the security of being God's children, we worry about food and clothing, become discouraged, and worry about whether we are doing the right thing. We need to acknowledge the responsibility God has taken on in ours lives by making us His children. For us to return to our previous lifestyle would make as much sense as a child living on the street answering the offer of a rich family, "Yes, I want to be your child, but I want to keep living in the street begging for food and digging in garbage." For God, the perfect Father, to forsake us, would make as much sense as good parents forsaking their children<div class="footnote">(Matthew 7:9-11)</div>.</div><div class="p" id="footnotes"></div><script src="js/footnotes.js" type="text/javascript"></script>  </div>- [Back to home page.](index.html)
- [Back to "Scriptural Impacts".](impacts.html)
- [How to receive a new life in Christ.](gospel.html)

Email: [pvwebb1@hotmail.com](mailto:pvwebb1@hotmail.com)

