 <head> <title>(PVW) Matthew 10:39: Spending Your Life</title> <meta content="IE=9" http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible"></meta> <link href="css/page_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link> </head><body><div class="page_style"> Matthew 10:39: Spending Your Life
---------------------------------

<div class="p"><table class="p" style="width: 100%;"><tr><td>Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.</td><td>(Matthew 10:39, NIV)</td></tr> <tr><td>For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for me will find it.</td><td>(Matthew 16:25, NIV)</td></tr> <tr><td>For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for me and for the gospel will save it.</td><td>(Mark 8:35, NIV)</td></tr> <tr><td>For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for me will save it.</td><td>(Luke 9:24, NIV)</td></tr> <tr><td>Whoever tries to keep his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life will preserve it.</td><td>(Luke 17:33, NIV)</td></tr> <tr><td>The man who loves his life will lose it, while the man who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life.</td><td>(John 12:25, NIV)</td></tr></table>

</div>The four gospels present Jesus' statement in six different ways. Thus, the differences must have been more than differences in translating Jesus' words into the Greek of the New Testament. Jesus must have given this statement more than once in more than one way. All six verses have the word, *lose*, while five have a different antonym to contrast with lose. These are *find*, *save*, *keep*, and *preserve*. For what a person does, the Gospel of John has *love* and its antonym, *hate*, instead of *lose* and an antonym.

The word translated *life* in these verses is the word *psyche*. It means an individual *life* as opposed to the general term for *life* in such phrases as *eternal life*. It is sometimes translated *soul*. However, we use the term *soul* in such a different way than the meaning of *psyche* in the New Testament that *life* is a better translation. A good example is John 10:11-18; 13:37-38; 15:13. The New Testament expression *to lay down one's life*, meaning *to willingly die for another*, has the word *psyche* translated as *life*. Because of the way people often use the word *soul* today, the phrase *to lay down one's soul* would not make sense. We do not use the term *soul* as an antonym of *dead*.

How do people attempt to find, save, keep, or preserve their lives? There are many different ways, but they are all characterized by selfishness. People try to look at life as if it were something that could be hoarded as often done with money. However, time continues to run no matter what we do. Life is much more like love than money. Love multiplies by giving it away. God showed us the greatest love possible by giving His life for us (John 15:13). We now love because God first loved us (1 John 4:19). Because Jesus sacrificed His life, we have eternal life (John 3:16; 1 John 4:9-10). You are spending your life on something. You cannot stop time from running out. Will you spend your life on things that will not matter when it is over, or will you spend it on being a part of God's eternal plan?

  </div>- [Back to home page.](noframesindex.html)
- [Back to "Scriptural Impacts".](impacts.html)
- [How to receive a new life in Christ.](gospel.html)

Email: [pvwebb1@hotmail.com](mailto:pvwebb1@hotmail.com)

