 <head> <title>(PVW) The Mysteries of Christianity</title> <meta content="IE=9" http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible"></meta> <link href="css/page_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link> </head><body lang="EN-US"><div class="page_style"> The Mysteries of Christianity
-----------------------------

Why mystery? At first glance, the word paradox, meaning a seeming contradiction, appears to fit better. However, past usage failed to distinguish between seeming and real contradiction. Immanuel Kant held that the form of knowledge is independent of experience, but connected how people know with experience through the senses. Consequently, Kant thought reality was unknowable. This was his paradox. Kant recognized our inability to discover absolute truth, but failed to acknowledge that God reveals truth to us. I haven't adopted Karl Barth's dialectic theology, which denies general revelation and separates faith from evidence and reason.

Nevertheless, complete knowledge resides beyond our reach, but within God's. In the Bible, God revealed Himself to us. Often, what He revealed challenges our understanding. We must let His recorded revelation in the Bible supersede any logical conclusions drawn from it. A common principle for those familiar with Biblical hermeneutics not only interprets Scripture within its local context, but also within the context of Scripture as a whole. Still, how does the Christian deal with passages that appear to contradict logically? This is what I mean by mystery.

Mystery depicts when God's revelation challenges our intellectual capacity. When this occurs, trust God rather than limit God's revelation to what we understand. This doesn't mean we shouldn't try to understand such mysteries, but we should treat God's revelation as a scientist does experimental data. Logic and reasoning can interpret data, but it's dishonest to let logic and reasoning rather than actual experimental results determine data. The recorded revelation must supersede the theological model that systematizes it.

Often, our reasoning can't explain God's truths. For example, take the two statements, 'nothing is impossible for God,' ([Luke 1:37](http://www.biblegateway.com/cgi-bin/bible?passage=Luke+1:37) ) and 'it's impossible for God to lie.' ( [Hebrews 6:18](http://www.biblegateway.com/cgi-bin/bible?passage=Hebrews+6:18) ) On the surface, these statements look like a contradiction. However, careful thought confirms consistency. 'Nothing is impossible for God' refers to God's omnipotence. It means nothing is beyond His physical capability. God's ability to speak gives Him the physical ability to tell a lie. God's self-determined character makes it impossible for Him to lie. While this explanation eliminates the contraction, it's simplistic as other explanations about God. Perhaps a reason God chose to reveal Himself through the Hebrews rather than the Greeks or Romans is the Hebrews recorded God's revelation as it occurred in history while the Greeks and Romans were preoccupied with philosophy and logical explanations.

Many basic Christian teachings about God defy our understanding. Often trying to explain these mysteries leads to oversimplification, even to the point of heresy. The Trinity is a good example. Any explanation other than I can't understand it borders on heresy. If we emphasize one side of the three-in-one over the other, we approach heresy. God gave us a good picture of the Trinity at Jesus' baptism. The Father spoke from Heaven, the Son stood in the water, and the Holy Spirit in the form of a dove descended from Heaven to the Son, all simultaneously and in harmony. ([Matthew 3:16-17](http://www.biblegateway.com/cgi-bin/bible?passage=Matthew+3:16-17))

It's difficult to understand Christ's divinity and humanity. Regarding His life here on earth, the temptation is to ask what percentage of Christ was God and what percent man as if each were less than 100%. Jesus Christ is fully God and fully human ([Hebrews 13:8](http://www.biblegateway.com/cgi-bin/bible?passage=Hebrews+13:8)). That's a stumbling block to many people. How can the infinite God be contained in a finite man? This isn't all that's baffling. How did Christ as the all-powerful and all-knowing God grow in strength and wisdom? ([Luke 2:40](http://www.biblegateway.com/cgi-bin/bible?passage=Luke+2:40)) On the other hand, how did the man, Jesus, testify of what he saw in Heaven? ([John 3:3-13](http://www.biblegateway.com/cgi-bin/bible?passage=John+3:3-13))

Understanding how God inspired Scripture is also difficult. Some conclude that any active human involvement in the Bible's authorship excludes inerrancy and verbal inspiration. This splits the inspiration of Scripture into two conflicting views. Either the human authors used their talents to write the individual books of the Bible causing human error in the writing while the concepts of what they wrote were inspired. Or, God dictated the Bible word for word to the human authors overriding their individual styles to exclude human error. This dichotomy denies God's sovereign ability to work out His perfect will using the talents of human beings with imperfect abilities and motives. In God's sovereignty, He uses the talents of imperfect people to work out His perfect will. God, through the Holy Spirit's gifts to imperfect human beings, wrote the perfect Scriptures.

While what we need to know for salvation is simple ([1 Corinthians 1:18-31](http://www.biblegateway.com/cgi-bin/bible?passage=1+Corinthians+1:18-31)), understanding salvation is complex. Some of its simplest elements are incomprehensible. For example, why did Christ have to die for our sins? It's true that Christ laying down His life for us is the ultimate example of love ([John 15:13](http://www.biblegateway.com/cgi-bin/bible?passage=John+15:13)). But, we cheapen Christ's death if we end there and ignore Christ's atonement for our sins. To say it only accommodates a primitive sacrificial system ignores God's part in that system along with its symbolic representation of Christ. But, understanding the how and why of atonement defies our understanding. We can only view what God did?

Failure to recognize our inability to fit all the details about God together causes many Christians to have a distorted view of John Calvin's emphasis on God's sovereignty. Sometimes even those claiming to agree with Calvin have this hyper-Calvinistic view. Calvin's emphasis on God's sovereignty was the same as other reformers such as Martin Luther, or even orthodox Catholicism. It was basic to St. Augustine's teachings. Hyper-Calvinists don't believe differently than Calvin on God's sovereignty. They exclude a part of what Calvin believed, in order to make their doctrine more logically consistent within the human capacity to understand.

God is no less that totally sovereign, no less than all-knowing, all-powerful, and present everywhere. Just because we can't understand how that leaves room for us to be responsible for our choices and actions, doesn't mean it's inconsistent with God's character. To think so, excludes part of God's revelation in the Bible.

The five points in Calvinism that form the acrostic, <span style="font-size:14.0pt;color:red">TULIP</span>, describe salvation from God's perspective. We need to balance this with the responsibilities God expects from us. The list below links to separate discussions for each point:

<span style="color:red">T</span>otal depravity (TBD)
 <span style="color:red">U</span>nconditional election (TBD)
 <span style="color:red">L</span>imited atonement (TBD)
 <span style="color:red">I</span>rresistible grace (TBD)
 <span style="color:red">P</span>erseverance of the saints (TBD)

 <div class="copy">©2004 Perry Vernon Webb.
 You may quote this page in part or the whole as long as you:
 1) do not alter the wording and
 2) reference this Internet page as the source of the quote.</div> </div>- [Back to home page.](index.md)
- [Back to Confessions of Faith](confess.md)
- [How to receive a new life in Christ.](gospel.md)

Email: [pvwebb1@hotmail.com](mailto:pvwebb1@hotmail.com)

