 <head> <title>(PVW) Naturalism versus Christianity</title> <meta content="IE=9" http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible"></meta> <link href="css/page_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link> </head><body lang="EN-US"><div class="page_style">Naturalism versus Christianity
------------------------------

<div class="p">One of the strongest opposing philosophical views to Christianity is naturalism. Webster defines naturalism as "a theory denying that an event or object has a supernatural significance; *specifically***:** the doctrine that scientific laws are adequate to account for all phenomena."<div class="footnote">Merriam-Webster, I. (1996). *Merriam-Webster's collegiate dictionary.* (10th ed.). Springfield, Mass., U.S.A.: Merriam-Webster.</div> This belief is what Friedrich Nietzsche meant in the statement, "God is dead," in his book, *Die fröhliche Wissenschaft*, first published in 1882. He believed that science had developed to the point that we don't need God to explain things that we previously didn't understand. He specifically believed this in reference to the God and supernaturalism of Christianity. </div>To determine if science adequately accounts for all phenomena, one must consider the logic upon which science depends. Deductive logic validates the consistency of ideas and concepts. Both systematic theology and science depend on deductive logic, but the truth of a valid deductive argument, whether science or theology, depends on the premises.To develop premises, science depends on inductive logic. However, inductive logic only applies to what we can generalize. (See ["Why is there a conflict between special revelation and science?"](science.html)) For naturalism to claim that science explains all phenomena, it must claim that generalizations explain all phenomena, or that nothing is truly unique.

Two issues that the naturalist faces are how the universe began and how to explain the human mind. The beginning of the universe is a unique event. Concerning the mind, if logical cause and effect can explain all phenomena, then even our thoughts are the product of previous causes. Our decisions result from previous causes.Naturalistic cause and effect leaves no room for free choice, but rather a cold impersonal determinism.

Statistics relates to both problems, the beginning of the universe and the mind. We use statistics because all the details are too great for us to track. However, if statistical chance exists independent of cause, then maybe there is room for free choice. Some try to reference the Heisenberg uncertainty principle in quantum mechanics as justification of this. But, the uncertainty in quantum mechanics is extremely small, much smaller than experimental error. One also has to ask, does chance make decisions any more responsible than cause and effect. People feel responsible for the decision they make, but decisions that chance determines are still deterministic.

The statistical problem with the Big Bang theory for the beginning of the universe is the extremely low statistical probability of the universe turning out the way it did. In particular, turning out with the ability to support life. (See ["Why is God invisible?"](invisible.html)) One way to explain the improbability of our universe is the multiverse theory. The larger the number of multiverses, the more probable the existence of our universe.

If one expands the multiverses to even larger numbers, then one could have a universe for every possible decision one could make. This is a way to explain the minds decision making.However, this pushes the number of universes in the multiverse toward infinity.

A multiverse eliminates the uniqueness of the beginning of the universe.However, it creates problems. How does one substantiate the existence of multiple independent isolated universes? The inability to substantiate scientifically is one of naturalism's primary criticisms of religion.

Naturalistic evolution, as opposed to either theistic or pantheistic evolution, also has a problem with the human mind. An evolution based solely on survival of the fittest leaves no room for the human mind to develop an understanding of truth or reality.(See ["Can a naturalistic view of evolution explain human cognition?"](Godisinvolved.html)) Charles Darwin published *On the Origin of Species* in 1859, when Friedrich Nietzsche was fifteen years old. While Nietzsche saw the driving force of evolution as the desire for power rather than the desire to survive, his philosophy devoid of God came to the same conclusion called nihilism, in which not only is truth itself lacking, but life has no meaning or purpose.

The naturalist struggles with questions such as, "Why do people inherently think there is a God?," and "Why do we think we make our own decisions and are responsible for our actions?" Many naturalists explain the inherent belief in God as an unfortunate byproduct of evolution. (<http://www.scientificamerican.com/blog/post.cfm?id=god-may-work-in-mysterious-waysbut-2011-01-27>) Along the same line, strict naturalism suggests that responsible decisions as well as free thought are illusion.

Many naturalists aren't so quick to abandon human volition and responsibility. Some propose extravagant theories to make these consistent with science. But, one has to ask, are these extravagant theories easier to believe than in God.

Christianity answers how the universe began with God, who created the universe with purpose. Christianity explains the human mind with God creating humans in His image. The human mind is a lesser expression of who God is.While the human mind is no comparison to God's infinite wisdom, God does relate to humans with redemptive purpose.We cannot find God through our knowledge, but, by becoming one of us, God revealed Himself to us in a way we can relate.

<div class="p" id="footnotes"></div><script src="js/footnotes.js" type="text/javascript"></script><div class="copy">©2011 Perry Vernon Webb. You may quote this page in part or the whole as long as you
 1) do not alter the wording and
 2) reference this Internet page as the source of the quote. </div>  </div>- [Back to home page.](noframesindex.html)
- [Back to "Answers to Some Philosophical Questions".](philosop.html)
- [How to receive a new life in Christ.](gospel.html)

Email: [pvwebb1@hotmail.com](mailto:pvwebb1@hotmail.com)

