 <head> <title>(PVW) Why does life seem unfair?</title> <meta content="IE=9" http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible"></meta> <link href="css/page_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link> </head><body><div class="page_style"> Why does life seem unfair?
--------------------------

<div class="p">Why does life seem unfair? Children ask this question early in life. No matter how fair parents, teachers, and other adults try to be with children, they can only act on what they know. Few have Solomon's discernment (1 Kings 3:16-28). When children disagree, adults must decide, often in a split second without full knowledge. Adults don't always agree. Danny may feel cheated because his parents don't allow him to do what Jimmy's parents allow. This question is more troubling when one asks, "Why does God allow the world to be unfair?" He knows everything and can do anything. He has no excuse.</div>What would an entirely fair life be like? Perhaps we would take fairness for granted. Impartiality would take no effort on our part. We wouldn't think about it. It wouldn't modify how we act. Such goodness would be superficial, and it wouldn't support empathy and close relationships with people.

When babies start life, discomforts warning of needs preoccupy their thoughts. How can they think about someone else's needs when they can't even take care of themselves? Nor, can they understand their needs to express them clearly? Infancy is not God's final purpose for our lives. Nor, is self-sufficiency the final stage of maturity. God's intention is for us to care about other people and concern ourselves with their needs (Galatians 6:2; Philippians 2:1-8).

<div class="p">God wants us to depend on Him as a small child<div class="footnote">(Matthew 18:2-4; Mark 10:14-15; Luke 18:16-17)</div>, but, unlike an infant's dependence upon parents, He wants us to accept this dependence willingly. God wants us to imitate Him as children imitate their parents<div class="footnote">(Ephesians 5:1-2)</div>. More than just external imitation, He wants our thoughts and character to imitate His<div class="footnote">(1 Samuel 16:7; 1 Chronicles 28:9; 2 Chronicles 16:9)</div>. He wants us to concern ourselves with fairness toward others more than how fairly others treat us<div class="footnote">(Matthew 7:12)</div>. Too often, [only those who experience hardship are willing to share sacrificially with others in need](Eddie_Ogan.html).</div><div class="p" id="footnotes"></div><script src="js/footnotes.js" type="text/javascript"></script><div class="copy">©2000 Perry Vernon Webb. You may quote this page in part or the whole as long as you do not alter the wording and reference this Internet page as the source of the quote.</div>  </div>- [Back to home page.](index.html)
- [Back to "Answers to Some Philosophical Questions".](philosop.html)
- [How to receive a new life in Christ.](gospel.html)

Email: [pvwebb1@hotmail.com](mailto:pvwebb1@hotmail.com)

