 <head> <title>(PVW) Mark 14:35-36: Submission to God's Authority</title> <meta content="IE=9" http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible"></meta> <link href="css/page_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link> </head><body><div class="page_style"> Mark 14:35-36: Submission to God's Authority
--------------------------------------------

<div class="p"><sup>35</sup>Going a little farther, he fell to the ground and prayed that if possible the hour might pass from him. <sup>36</sup> <font color="#AA0000">*"Abba*, Father,"</font> he said, <font color="#AA0000">"everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will."</font> (Mark 14:35-36, NIV)

</div><div class="p">The realization that God has absolute authority and control over everything, every circumstance, and every detail of life<div class="footnote">(Ecclesiastes 7:14; Isaiah 45:7; Matthew 6:25-34; Romans 8:28)</div> is key to submitting to God's will. We want God to show Himself in signs and wonders<div class="footnote">(Matthew 12:38-39; 16:1-4; Mark 8:11-12; Luke 11:29; John 2:18; 6:30)</div> rather than recognizing that He already guides us through the circumstances of life<div class="footnote">(Psalm 138:8; Proverbs 19:21; 20:24; Jeremiah 10:23-24)</div>. When we become angry and bitter with the circumstances in life, we are really angry and bitter toward God<div class="footnote">(Genesis 45:4-5)</div>. When we realize that God is carrying out His purpose in the midst of the circumstances, then we seek to willingly be involved in what He is doing.</div><div class="p">Far too often Christians fail to understand Scripture and fail to see God's will because they are unwilling to recognize God's complete authority. They want to explain tragedy by chance. This allows us to equate what we want to be God's will and deny the undesirable as not God's will. But Jesus said that, if it is God's will, we could move mountains with the smallest of faith<div class="footnote">(Matthew 17:20; Luke 17:5-6)</div>. It is failing to submit our desires to Him that obscures God's will<div class="footnote">(John 7:17; James 1:5; 4:3)</div> from us. It is amazing how much clearer the Scriptures become when we accept both God's predestining sovereignty and our free will at face value without trying to explain their consistency. The Bible does contain what we should do and not do to follow God's will, but submitting to God's control over the things that we can not control is also important. </div><div class="p">Submitting to God's authority is key to submitting to other authorities (Romans 13:1-7). If we complain about the circumstances in which God has placed us, how can we hope to not complain about the human authorities over us? We might obey human authorities to avoid the penalty of disobeying, but to submit we must obey willingly. Rules and regulations can be arbitrary, but are necessary for fairness and order. How would you like driving if everyone decided to ignore red lights? If we expect everyone else to follow the rules, but break them ourselves, we are being unfair. There may be times when we have to disobey human authorities in order to obey God (Acts 4:18-20), but we should not disobey simply because we don't want to obey.</div><div class="p">The past and the future are also beyond our reach. While we decided on our past actions, once done we cannot change them and our ability to undo the past is somewhat limited. If God did not accomplish His will through what we decide, whether good or bad, then we might have found ourselves trapped in a situation where our past actions no longer allowed us to do God's will now. However, God arranges the circumstances so that now we can always decide to do God's will<div class="footnote">(John 6:37)</div>. The only unpardonable sin is the unbelief that refuses to come to God for forgiveness<div class="footnote">(1 John 1:8-9)</div>. We can make plans for the future but we cannot do anything in the future until it becomes now. God determines what plans come true<div class="footnote">(Psalm 37:23; Proverbs 16:1, 3, 9; 19:21; 21:30)</div>. God's will for us is much clearer when we concentrate on doing what we know is right and when we realize God is controlling the circumstances around us to achieve His will.</div><div class="p" id="footnotes"></div><script src="js/footnotes.js" type="text/javascript"></script>  </div>- [Back to home page.](index.md)
- [Back to "Scriptural Impacts".](impacts.md)
- [How to receive a new life in Christ.](gospel.md)

Email: [pvwebb1@hotmail.com](mailto:pvwebb1@hotmail.com)

