 <head> <title>(PVW) John 8:32: "...the truth will set you free."</title> <meta content="IE=9" http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible"></meta> <link href="css/page_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link> </head><body><div class="page_style"> John 8:32: "...the truth will set you free."
--------------------------------------------

<div class="p">"Then you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free." (John 8:32, NIV)

 The full passage: John 8:31-47</div><div class="p">How can we know the truth? It's reasonable to talk about knowing the truth of a particular statement. But, we are incapable of grasping truth in its entirely. Only God is all-knowing. A hint to answering this question is in the two verses that bracket John 8:31-47: To the Jews who had believed him, Jesus said, "If you hold to my teaching, you are really my disciples. " (John 8:42, NIV)

"He who belongs to God hears what God says. The reason you do not hear is that you do not belong to God. " (John 8:42, NIV)

 In these two sentences, Jesus referred to relationships of Jesus being our teacher and of belonging to God. The entirety of cognitive knowledge is beyond our grasp, but everyone has the ability to form relationships. We can be acquainted (John 1:14) with the Truth when it's [personified in Jesus Christ](waytruth.html).</div><div class="p">As those Jesus spoke to asked, "Why do we need setting free? We are free to make our own choices"<div class="footnote">(John 8:33)</div>. Certainly, people in many countries today enjoy a higher degree of freedom than every before. Are Jesus' words still relevant to us? Jesus said sin enslaves us<div class="footnote">(John 8:34)</div>. The more we enjoy financial affluence and political freedom the deeper we see people choose to let sin enslave them. We quickly recognize our intellectual limitations, but are reluctant to admit our desire's inability to make the right choices.</div>What makes desires enslaving is our inability to find satisfaction from following them. In fact, some people attribute desire as a primary source of suffering, not just external circumstances. Affluence extending beyond meeting basic physical needs brings out the futility of our self-seeking ability to satisfy our desires. But, God has given us our desires to find fulfillment in Him beyond our basic physical needs. When we learn to enjoy God's aspirations, then God satisfies our desires (Psalm 37:3-5).

<div class="p">Our relationship with Christ sets us free in more than one way. Christ's sacrificial death sets us free from the penalty of sin. This sets us free from fear<div class="footnote">(1 John 4:17-18)</div> and condemnation<div class="footnote">(Romans 8:1-3)</div>. But if it stopped there without setting us free from the sin's control over how we live<div class="footnote">(Romans 8:4-17)</div>, we would not find life fulfilling. </div><div class="p">Jesus' example<div class="footnote">(John 13:15; 1 Corinthians 11:1; Ephesians 5:1-2; 1 Peter 2:21; 1 John 2:6)</div> from his life here on earth is an example for how we should live. Through belonging to Him, our Master (Lord), and through His Spirit indwelling our lives, He gives us the desire to live the life<div class="footnote">(Galatians 5:16-17)</div> He showed us. Thus, His Spirit within us battles our desires that would choose sin, releasing us to choose His will. When we commitment ourselves to Him, we can entrust our fulfillment<div class="footnote">(Ephesians 2:10; Philippians 2:13)</div> to Him.</div><div class="p" id="footnotes"></div><script src="js/footnotes.js" type="text/javascript"></script><div class="copy">©2001 Perry Vernon Webb. You may quote this page in part or the whole as long as you
 1) do not alter the wording and
 2) reference this Internet page as the source of the quote. </div>  </div>- [Back to home page.](index.html)
- [Back to "Scriptural Impacts".](impacts.html)
- [How to receive a new life in Christ.](gospel.html)

Email: [pvwebb1@hotmail.com](mailto:pvwebb1@hotmail.com)

